Hey, I'm Jay Weidner, and
we're here today with--
and I hope I don't mangle this
too much-- Crotalo Sesamo.
He's an ambassador from the
Damanhur School, mystery
school in northern Italy.
And he's here today to talk
about a plethora of subjects,
and it should be incredibly
entertaining, I think.
How you doing?
Very good, thank you.
Thank you to invite me out here.
Yeah, it's great
to have you here.
Yes.
So let's start
at the beginning.
You come from a very
famous mystery school
in Italy, the Damanhur School.
Yes, yes.
Well, more than
a mystery school,
we can talk about a
federation of community,
a spiritual community that's
called Damanhur that was born
in 1975 from the
vision of [INAUDIBLE],
and also a group of founders
that was studying to create
a place where to study and
research their spirituality,
but also to bring
the spirituality
in the everyday life.
And so it's been
around since 1975.
Yes, almost 40 years.
Wow, that's great.
And so one of the things
that you guys did was you
wanted to explore what
Atlantis was like, right?
Well let's say
Damanhur, that comes
from the name of an
ancient place in Egypt,
an ancient village that
means city of light,
it's really an experience
that is coming, if you want,
from the past, but also from
the future, because Damanhur is
based on a spiritual research.
And this spiritual research
is not on our religion,
but is really connecting
to the soul journey.
Or if you want, to the
reason why we're here.
And the big picture that bring
us to come back in this time,
and then to have talent, to have
capacity that we have to apply,
something that we call mission.
So let's say Damanhur
was born to accomplish
a spiritual mission.
And to create, in this time,
something pretty unique,
or something that could be as
an example or an inspiration
for the world.
If you want, a sort of
spiritual accelerator.
Damanhur is probably very
well-known for what we
call the temple of humankind.
This is really an
incredible place.
It's an underground temple
that we built according
to the ancient languages,
the sacred geometry,
or, if you want, the stone
language, the same that many
civilizations in
the past they used
in the creation of pyramids and
the creation of sacred temples
or the stepped pyramids, or
other places that with stones
was following the signs,
symbols, sacred geometry,
that are sort of language.
So they left page of a book
of a book of knowledge.
So according to this, we
created an underground temple
that is following all these
different sacred geometry,
these stone language,
to create a book.
A book of knowledge, a book
that is able then to talk really
inside of us, really
directly to the soul,
and also probably to get
the answer to the reason
why we are here.
So we created this
magnificent place
that is more than
6,000 square meters,
completely digged by hands.
And I mean, I'm lucky, because
I've been living in Damanhur
for more than 25 years,
and I'm part of the builder
of the temple, temple
that was built actually
mostly completely in
secret because-- well,
this is a long story.
But you can imagine that
probably to ask permission
to the country to
create something
like this, well
probably the answer
will not be very successful.
So we took the risk
to do it in secret.
Then we legalize everything.
But the temple represent our
way of seeing the spirituality.
Not only meditate,
not only research,
but then acting, doing.
Make it happen.
The action is the
most important part
of what we call the
spiritualization of the matter,
that is really like
to bring the values,
the significance that the
spirituality is bringing
into the everyday life,
but also into the things
that you have around you.
So the temple is the example
that is possible to do it,
and it's actually still possible
to create incredible places,
and it's still
possible to-- let's say
really to create your dream.
Many times, Damanhur is
described as a real dream.
Because even if we was a
little group, even if we start
with no money support
from big power behind us,
so the will and the desire to
create this dream all together
was moving us to create
something that is an example
that everybody can do
it all over the world.
And this world it seems
it needs so much dreamers.
People able to dream
a different life,
people able to bring
into the matter what
they really wish about life.
So Damanhur is all of
this in few worlds.
And the temple, that is
definitely one place that
is visited from thousands
and thousands of people
from all over the
world every year,
is an inspiration for everyone
that wants to change their life
or transform their
life according
to their mission, the reason
why they are back here.
Why did you build
it underground?
Well underground because in
all the ancient knowledge, well,
where is the most
important thing?
It's here, inside.
The soul is here inside.
So every temple, as
also every pyramid,
there was, let's say, a
pyramid on the surface,
and then a pyramid underground.
Also in the Catholic
Church they say
there is the part
on the surface,
but then the Sancta Sanctorum,
the most sacred and important
part, are always underground.
-The crypt.
-Exactly.
-Yeah.
-Or any house.
So being inside
of the earth, it's
really being inside
of-- or to be in contact
with the most sacred part.
But there's also
another reason, and this
is about what in the
past was called the point
of the back of the dragon.
I'm talking about
energy lines, what
we call the Synchronic Lines.
Well, the Synchronic Lines
are not the only one.
Someone mentioned them as
the lay lines, for example.
Or feng shui, in Chinese.
Or the feng shui in Chinese.
And as we have these energy
lines outside in the planet,
we have also these
energy lines inside,
the microlines or,
again, the meridians,
point of the body that are
responding to specific element.
Well, the Synchronic Lines
is a study that involved
Damanhur since the beginning.
Well actually, at the
beginning of the beginning,
we didn't know where
to build Damanhur,
where to build a temple, because
these energies lines that
are surrounding the
planet in every direction,
they're moving.
Very slowly, but they're moving.
That means that places
that in the past
it was pretty important, now
they are not so important.
And other places,
they've been preparing
to be the one in this time.
But unfortunately-- I'm talking
about 1973, 1974-- we didn't
have them completely mapped.
So Falco and this
first group of people
went to do many travel
all around the world,
and then using technique
connecting to the astro travel
or to channeling.
To do what?
Well to perceive, to complete
this map of the Synchronic
Lines, and then
to find out where
is the most important point.
And which are these
important points?
Where the line are crossing
together, attaching together.
Intersection.
In that case, we have
really a source of energy,
a spot of energy that is
really able to influence
everything and everyone.
So after many years
of traveling-- well,
it's a funny story,
to tell you the truth.
They realized when
the map was complete
that the most important point
in this time, on this planet,
it was simply 10 miles
from where Falco was born.
Falco was born in Balangero,
that is a little village
in Piedmont, in
Italy, and we are,
Damanhur is in
Baldissero Canavese.
So again, it's a funny
story, it's very humoristic,
but again is what
many times happens.
So we are always going to
travel around to find where
is the most important things.
And then again, the
most important things
is just right inside of us.
So when we found out this place,
we decided to create Damanhur
and to create a
temple of humankind.
Underground because,
well, these energy lines,
they're going very up into
the sky, but also very deep
into the earth.
So according to this, we dig
into the earth to connect,
to plug, this temple,
laboratory, station,
whatever we want
to call, exactly
with all the energies that
we need for all our research.
And it's pretty
interesting because when,
then, in the middle of the
'90s, when we legalize all
the structure, all the
temple, when the geologists,
they went to do many tests
about where and how we build all
the structure, they was
absolutely surprised
to discover that we dig the
temple exactly where there is
a layer of a very special
rock, a stone that
is called menolite.
I mean probably people don't
know so much about that
because these are
stones that normally
you find only in very deep and
profound level of the earth.
But these rocks can
be more on the surface
when there is some tectonic
planes of the planet,
as where we are in
where is Damanhur.
So this menolite is called
the energetic stone,
where the energy flow
free inside of this rock.
Well we build completely
the temple inside
of these layers of [INAUDIBLE].
But we didn't know that,
because we was following
our spiritual
research, the knowledge
according to the
Synchronic Lines.
And this was, let's say, the
practical proof of something
that is coming from an
ancient part of the knowledge
of the humankind.
So talk to me about
your paintings.
Well actually, it's
not really my paintings.
It's the painting that, in one
specific seminar that is inside
of what we call the
Damanhur Mystery School,
we're teaching all
over the world.
This is a pretty interesting
seminar of one of my favorite,
because I have the
passion about the history,
the history of humankind.
But let's say not
the history that you
find in the normal book.
Another kind of history, or
more connecting to the mystery
archaeology that is
trying to describe
the issue of the
evolution of the humankind
in a different way, and
not just with the idea
that now we are the top.
At the top of
everything, at the top
of the organization,
of our resources,
of the use of energy
and et cetera.
But the vision start
with the approach
that well, this
is just one point.
And in the past, probably we was
arriving in point much higher.
And then we also fall down,
and then we rise again.
So--
Cyclic history, instead
of linear history.
Exactly.
And it's very interesting
to observe-- and I'm lucky,
because as an
ambassador of Damanhur,
I'm really travelling
all over the world also,
because I'm the one specialized
to create new connection,
new reference point, new
embassy for Damanhur.
And it's very interesting to see
how, all over the world, more
and more people are so
interested about history,
and are so interested
to find answer--
Yes, they are.
From the history.
Yes.
Because it seems that until
now, we was in a sort of bubble
where there was someone
telling us what is true,
what isn't true.
What is black, what is white.
What is positive,
what is negative.
Those days are over.
But this seems more
like a box that's
something that then brings
people to be free to discover
what is your truth.
Again, Damanhur is not
here to sell a new truth,
and I'm not here
to convince anyone.
But I'm here to offer something
that might help people
to change their way of
thinking, to see things
with a different perspective,
to connect element
that before that
was so far away,
and then they are
creating a perfect role.
So Damanhur is doing this.
Doesn't want to bring
everyone to live in Damanhur,
or to join only the
Damanhur things.
Damanhur wants to
be an inspiration
for everyone to find your way--
-An example.
To find your expression
of spirituality,
whatever is this expression.
And if it's spirituality,
it will be always
in the respect of the
other spirituality,
or the other expression
of what you feel is true.
Right.
Anyhow, the history, it
seems to be an interesting key
to shift the
conscious, to change
the way of thinking of people.
Yes, we believe so.
Well we are in a
period of time that
could be a sort of new
golden age for the humankind.
That would be nice.
Or a period of time
that maybe can bring us
opportunity that for many, many
years was not possible to have.
But we're going to
be ready to catch
this opportunity, or the
opportunity to just pass
and another time, it's gone.
Well the idea is that
from the spirituality,
from the history-- and history
is a topic that really touch
everyone, you don't have
to be a spiritualist person
to be interested about
history-- that might change
the different perspective
about evolution, about history,
about time, about technology,
about what is inside
of this planet and what
is outside of the planet,
and the concept that
probably we're not alone,
because imagine that in
billions and billions of planet
we are the only one with
life is pretty weird
or absolutely crazy or fantasy.
So inside of these
seminars, as we call,
the ancient history of
humankind, the Atlantis
and pre-Atlantis
history, well, we
talk about a history that start
two millions of years ago,
an history that is
involving this planet.
A little, green, full-of-life
planet, but really
at the corner of our galaxy.
And we start also to talk about
something that is probably
outside of this
planet, something
that could be more connecting
to empires or whatever.
But I mean it doesn't
matter the terms,
and it doesn't matter the names.
And in all these
seminar, we are trying
to passing through these
different period of time,
because we see the past as a
possibility to see the future,
or to give a meaning
to the present.
That's the reason why we are
looking also from the past.
The time could be described
also as a wheel, big wheel
that is moving very slowly.
So let's say this wheel can
bring back some, as I told you,
opportunity.
So if I know how
was in the past,
I may know how could
be the possible future.
Right.
If I see how it
went, probably I
might not repeat the same
mistakes, or the same things
that I already did.
So the past is a way
to see the future.
And this the reason why we're
teaching these seminars,
because they give the big
frame, the big pictures
about the history
of the humankind,
but also our personal
position in this big picture.
When we start to
talk about Atlantis,
and I know that Atlantis is
one of the topics that inspire,
you know, make people
to dream, and then, you
know, their hearts
start to beat strongly,
because everybody's so
inspired by Atlantis.
There's so many people talking
about Atlantis, so many books.
Plato was probably the first,
but after Plato, there's
many writer was
trying to describe,
say, locate Atlantis in
many different position
on the planet.
Right.
But actually, in this
moment, in this time,
Atlantis doesn't exist.
-No, it doesn't.
-Nope.
Sorry.
Sorry about it.
It doesn't exist.
They either say oh yes,
it's in Santorini in Greece,
oh no, is the island
of Sardinia in Italy,
oh no, it's Cuba
nearby United States,
no, is in the island of Malta.
So there are many
different theory,
but actually no one prove
that Atlantis was existing,
that Atlantis was there, it was
this civilization, and so on.
Yes, there is element, but
nothing that can really
finally say wow, we are
coming from something
that was more evolved.
-Right.
And probably we are still, you
know, the result of the fact
of the falling of Atlantis.
But actually, no proof.
Well how to take
to improve, and why
to take some proof at the end.
I have to come
back a little bit,
and I have to come
back to Damanhur.
And I have to come
back to Falco.
Falco, it is, and it was,
a very [INAUDIBLE] man.
Unfortunately, he passed
this year, the 23 of June.
And this is really
an important moment
for the entire community, for
the entire Damanhur for what,
who, was Falco, and also
for what he represent.
Not only as a spiritual master,
but also as a very incredible
person with the capacity to--
not only to have the vision,
but mostly to have
the memory, the memory
from where he was coming from.
And from where he was
coming from-- well,
we can talk about
future, but again, we
can also talk about past.
We have in Damanhur a
different approach about time.
Past, future, well, we can
see them as prospective.
I mean, I see in one direction
I see the past, well,
and then there is the
future, or vice versa.
And in many spiritual
approach, time is
also described as a territory.
So everything is present
at the same moment.
Right.
Also, when we talk
about past life,
well, it's probably not
correct to say past life.
We can talk about lives,
or experience, that
are all at the same moment--
Parallel.
In different parallel.
In different places
of this territory.
I like this idea.
And they are all affecting
all of them at the same time.
So again, why have to
look at the past life?
I'm looking at the
past life, or lives,
to give understanding
to what is happening
in this life, in this
actual life, in this moment.
Why I have the talent, why
I hate so much that place,
why I have that
capacity, why I have
these issues always in my life.
Because these is connecting
to all the experience,
and actually from where
we are coming from.
So in this different
vision of time--
and again, I'm not
here to convince even
if, scientifically speaking,
well, for example, time travel,
it's possible.
The magazine "Science" says,
yes, time travel is possible,
well, already 10, 15 years ago.
How to do it, well,
they don't know yet,
or they will not tell us.
They're not gonna tell us, yes.
They're still not telling
us if they did it or not,
but probably yes, but who cares?
Anyhow, the concept of time
as a territory and the concept
of time traveling, it was in
every ancient civilization--
Yes, it was.
Connecting to the spirituality.
Well, if we want to see
another vision about Egyptian,
for example, well, I'm
in love with Egyptian,
as I'm in love with all
the Mesoamerican culture
because, well,
[INAUDIBLE], rattlesnake,
is the sacred animal, is
the [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH].
It's half [INAUDIBLE],
half rattlesnack.
Well, OK.
Just publicity for my name.
Promotion of the [INAUDIBLE].
Well anyhow, for example, all
these important civilization,
they was so focusing themselves
on the beyond, on the death,
with all these ritual,
the mummification
and the preparation with
all the elements, and so on.
Well, many times people will
say oh, my goodness, they
was so sad people always
thinking about death
and blah, blah, blah.
Superstitious.
Absolutely.
Well, this is not true.
I mean, there was absolutely
happy civilization.
Much happier than ours.
Really-- absolutely.
Well, they was really connecting
to the true sense of life.
But at the same
times, what they did,
it was to recreate a bridge.
What it means?
It means that, if we have
to come back, because if we
believe in the reincarnation and
if we believe in the alignment,
and the alignment
is very briefly
passing through all the
experience, then to bring
the matter to become light.
The fore is become energy.
So we refine constantly
to one experience
after an experience,
one life after one life,
it takes a little while.
I mean technically, one
life could be enough.
Practically, doesn't so well.
So we need to come back and
come back and come back.
So what happened?
That is really
important, to come back
in the right place, in the right
moment, in the right situation.
Right.
-Isn't that true?
-Yes.
So what they did,
in a certain way,
through all these rituals,
all this complexity connecting
to death, they create bridge.
Bridge into the beyond, into the
threshhold, into the invisible.
To do what?
To guide the soul.
Not to be lost,
but to come back.
Or to, if we want,
to time travel
exactly in the right
place, in the right moment,
in the right situation.
Could be a completely
different vision.
And actually, talking about
the different time travel,
well, the low cost, if I can say
like this, of the time travel,
when you have really a
lot of things to do in one
place, which method you use?
Well, the reincarnation.
You go there, you are
born in that place,
and then you spend your
life in that place,
because there's a
lot of work to do.
-Yeah.
-That's it.
So, completely
different perspective.
Who knows?
Maybe also Falco and
the Damanhurians,
they was traveling in many
different moment of time
to come back in this
time, to realize Damanhur,
to realize something is not
just a community or just
a federation of
spiritual communities,
not just to create a
temple, but is really
like to create an instrument
that could be an inspiration,
an acceleration, for the
spiritual reawakening
of the people of this world,
or as much people we can.
-Right.
-Why?
Because this is
the right moment.
This is the right
moment to finally catch
that occasion that are coming.
Why is this the right moment?
Well because finally we
are in a piece of time,
in a time frame,
that if we want,
it was prepared for
such a long time,
we can also imagine since the
end of Atlantis, so since 10,
probably 12,000 years ago,
when the great floods arrive
and unfortunately destroy
that civilization.
And for a long time, it was
not possible to recreate
this same occasion, occasion
that now it seems to be here.
Well here then not probably
today, but in this timeframes,
in these years.
And I can imagine
that-- I mean people
are really perceiving that
there's a big change all
over the world.
-Yeah.
Everybody can feel it.
Absolutely.
And there is also an
acceleration in this.
Yes, there is.
And the entire system
is now on the way
to be changed simply
because finally people
are attaching their values.
Well for me, the economic
crisis is just an opportunity--
I agree with that.
To-- well, to bring
people, even if sometimes
it's a painful process,
I understand that,
but really to bring
back out of that box,
the box of what is
true, what is not true,
what is white or what is
black, what the society is
telling us what we have to do.
So how come I feel safe if
I receive a piece of paper
and in this piece of paper
there is one zero more,
and I feel lost if I
receive a piece of paper
and there is a zero less.
Yes.
Wait a moment.
It is true, it is not true.
What is simply a big
game, or something fake.
What is really value?
Friendship is a value, or the
piece of paper are values.
I would say the friendship.
Is the family one
values of my life,
or is simply go at work to
earn money to spend more money.
Right.
So many people are touched
in these last five years,
since the crisis of 2008, in
their values, in what is true,
what is not true.
And they are
questioning themselves.
And they are trying
to find new answer.
That's the reason why we have to
be ready to help these people.
-That's right.
-To give them answer.
And in this, Damanhur could
be a great inspiration,
as Gaiam TV is absolutely great
inspiration for many people
that are looking for
new answer, because this
is the time of change.
But I'm also used to say that
change doesn't mean that we
have to destroy our society.
We're not here to
destroy anything.
We're here to
change the society.
But since now the
perspective was
that we was waiting someone.
President.
The president will
change our society.
The important person will come
and will change the society.
Say OK, [INAUDIBLE].
-Yeah.
-No.
-That is completely different.
-Yeah.
Why I'm talking about
a spiritual awake?
Why I'm talking about dreamers?
Because only will people, they
will make the click inside.
And they will really
touch their soul,
and they will really touch
their values, their dreams.
The reason why it's good to
spend one's life-- so only
with that conscious
they will really change
the society from the bottom.
So we are the people that
will change the society,
and not the big
important people,
not the VIP, not the president.
But until a certain number of
people will not be reawakened,
this will not be possible.
Why, for example, am I going to
choose to live as a community?
Because for us, community is
an instrument to create dream.
Because while alone,
as an individual,
well, I can do a lot of things.
A lot.
But not everything.
Not all.
JAY WEIDNER: Nope.
CROTALO SESAMO: When
I'm in a group--
JAY WEIDNER: You need a team.
CROTALO SESAMO: When I'm in a
team, when I'm in a community,
I can move the mindset.
Everything is possible.
It's more difficult,
but I can do it.
And one of these examples--
a little group of people,
no money, in the north of Italy
in a valley that was completely
poor-- I mean, with
this same commitment,
with this same dream,
we create something that
is an example for everyone.
So why not to do it even better?
Why not to do it here?
Why not to do it in India?
Why not to do it in Japan?
Why not to do it
all over the world?
So community could be
also one of the answer
for-- for the people--
JAY WEIDNER: For the problems.
--to really
realize their dreams.
And also, to find out
other people where I
can really face the same
values, the same beliefs.
JAY WEIDNER: So they
know they're not alone.
Exactly, because this
planet is so full of people
that are feeling so lonely.
JAY WEIDNER: Yeah.
And this is extremely the
opposite of what's happening
physically because
people are going,
you know, in big cities,
millions and millions
of people who live
together, they don't even
know each other who is living
in the other apartment in front
of them.
It's crazy.
So people are coming
back to live outside
of the city in the
villages because there's
more the sense of community.
So we need the group, we
need the others, to realize,
to make it happen.
So we believe that this is
the moment where people are
bringing back their
conscious of their power,
of their possibility,
their possibility
to change the world,
to change the society,
to change actually their life.
And together to do
it for a better wish.
Whatever is then your values.
And if it's a value,
if it's spiritually,
it would be in the respect
of the other values
and with the other people.
JAY WEIDNER: That's right.
Because this is another
magical word-- respect.
We are still killing
people in the name of God.
actually, this is one of the
most recent unfortunately.
And this is crazy.
It doesn't, I mean, fit
spirituality with this.
Religion probably
are something that
was working for a long time,
but now probably they are not
giving any more answer,
and people are trying
to find other answer
because killing in the name
of a religion, it's crazy.
It's completely something
that is insane but is
what happened at the moment.
So that is why this time,
it's so, so important.
And actually for
me, this process
was already starting
in 1989 and 1990,
or around that
part of time where
the Berlin Wall fell down.
And at that time, Falco was
always saying, well my friend,
don't forget.
When a wall is falling down,
it's not only in one way
but in the both way.
So it was, let's say,
for the time, the end
of what we call the communists.
But it was also the
beginning of the end
of the west, of the free
market, of all the system.
And now, we are just simply
at the beginning of this.
Well, I don't know if to say to
the beginning, in the middle,
or the end.
I don't feel at
the end, actually.
JAY WEIDNER: Not quite.
Close, maybe, but--
-Close.
Unfortunately, since
2008, not many things
are changed in the system.
And the people are still
sitting in the same chair,
the same one that was
creating all this disaster.
But well, you know, probably
it's also good like this
because we need to be shaked.
And more than a
tsunami-- because then
there is also this idea that oh,
2012, there will be a disaster.
Something will kill
and blah blah blah.
No.
I always say the most effective
tsunami is the one that
is touching your pocket because
that is really touching you
a lot, because when there
is a tsunami in Indonesia,
they are saying oh, poor people.
For one week, everybody
is so impatient.
This and some money,
and that's it.
Now, that is a tsunami that is
really touching you every day,
every single moment.
So that is about this time.
And this is also the reason
why there is Damanhur.
So Damanhur is something
that is a project that is
not just for this generation.
It's for many generations.
And the temple is a
gift for the humankind
as an example that can inspire
people all over the world.
And the fact to come
to visit down Damanhur,
it's really like to be
in contact with energy
that are talking silent.
And it doesn't matter
what you believe
and it also doesn't matter for
which reason you're coming.
So this is also an
invitation for Gaiam TV
to come very soon
to visit Damanhur.
We'd love to.
We love Italy.
Well, be there.
Be there.
Enter into this temple.
That is not a visit.
Well, we call a
visit of the temple,
but it's an experience
in the temple.
Enter in contact
with that energy,
it's really like to
start a dialogue inside
of yourself, inside with your
soul, touching the reason
why you are there.
And maybe will not to be
a click that you will have
immediately into the temple.
But maybe your
dream in your life,
then there will be this
change, the crisis.
Well actually, I love crisis.
JAY WEIDNER: Yeah.
You know why?
Well, because crises
are the only moment
where you are open to change.
JAY WEIDNER: That's right.
Because when everything
is going well,
who wants to change?
I don't know.
I want to keep it
if that's fine.
JAY WEIDNER: Absolutely.
A divorce, or a death, or--
-Whatever.
--could be the
greatest catalyst--
Or the '40s, you know.
The crisis of the '40s, the
crisis of the '20s, the crisis
of-- well, the crises
for me in this case
are the knock, the knocking
of the soul at the door.
Like, hello.
There be someone there?
You know, you're not
really doing the life
that you're supposed to do.
Time to do something else.
And then the crises
are an opportunity
to finally change life according
to the reason why we're here.
So I'm really inspired.
And the mystery
school, actually,
is probably the most
powerful instrument
we can offer to everyone
all over the world
to give to every one
instrument to touch themselves
and to transform people.
So people, they need to
have practical instruments
to support this transformation,
to support the realization,
which is the mission, you know.
Also, how to
accomplish the mission.
So that is what people
are looking for.
The answer are also
the possibility
to be enough
practical, because too
many people are talking
about spirituality
only in a structured level.
We need them to have
practical example.
I need to have instrument.
I need to have something
that I know I can use it
and it actually is working.
Otherwise, I will
feel lost again.
So in these, the answer
of the spirituality
need to be always
a practical answer.
I'm meditating when
I'm crossing my legs,
but I also "medit-ating"
action, "medit-action,"
when I move my hands, when
I'm working for a bigger goal,
when I'm doing something with
my hands, when I'm creating art,
for example.
Before, we was
talking about art.
Art is another incredible
expression of spirituality
into the matter,
meanings into the matter.
Anyhow, so this could
be the general idea
of why this is the moment,
or the important moment.
So we we're talking about
your-- the Damanhur Institution
and mystery school
in northern Italy,
and now we're going to talk
about some of the research
that you guys have
done, which I think
is really fascinating,
especially on Atlantis.
And I think your whole reasoning
for wanting to go to Atlantis
to find out what it was like
so that we know how to live
is really a pretty
interesting idea.
So tell me how it got started.
Well, we talk a little
bit about before,
and about the Damanhur
mission, and also the mission
to be this inspiration in
this time in the world.
But if we are coming
back to the vision
that time is a territory
and then in this territory,
there's many things
that are going
on in many different places.
And we know that
there is something,
as Atlantis, that unfortunately
is still that is non-existent.
Everybody is so exciting.
Everybody is feeling that it
is true, but actually there's--
JAY WEIDNER: No proof.
-No.
It's not proof.
There's a sort of
invisible wall that--
JAY WEIDNER: Outside of Plato.
Plato, but that's it.
Yes, that's it.
So there is an
invisible wall that it
seems to separate Atlantis
with this other period of time.
And if you imagine
that Atlantis,
it was really existent
and it was really
one of the highest
moment of what
could be the evolution,
the expression,
the capacity of the
human kind to evolve.
And unfortunately,
Atlantis is also
the one that was falling down--
JAY WEIDNER: Yep, sunk.
Also probably with
two different phase.
One, extremely exciting, the
golden age of the human kind.
But also one that is hmm,
probably not so nice.
Not probably so good.
JAY WEIDNER: Some
dark magic, maybe.
Yes.
I mean, the power
that corrupt, or when
you have the power of
death and life, I mean,
you can do whatever you want.
JAY WEIDNER: Right, corrupt.
And not anymore
what you have to do.
But if in any case, we can
imagine that in the history
that we are living
at this moment,
we are still paying the
price of what Atlantis was.
And we are paying the
price of this catastrophe.
It might be interesting or it
might be important to prepare
the next, the next time frame,
the next possible future,
to Atlantis and also to many
other places in this territory.
In Damanhur, we talk
about time travel.
Actually, we don't
share so much anymore
because otherwise,
Damanhur, it's a little bit
misunderstood.
So then people are just
coming from the time
travel and not anymore for--
JAY WEIDNER: Sprituality.
--the spiritual research
and for the inspiration,
for example.
So I'm not going to talk
so much, but a little bit--
JAY WEIDNER: That's all right.
- --for sure.
JAY WEIDNER: I understand.
And talking about
Atlantis, there
is something that in the
seminar that I mentioned before.
We are sharing, and we are
sharing something that is,
well, a story, crazy things.
Well, I don't want
to convince you,
but it's really connecting
to Falco, to Damanhur,
and to the possible future.
So let's say if in this time,
Atlantis is still not existing,
but we are trying to
reconnect these two
different territories, these
two different times, because it
really seems that there
is a fracture before when
there was Atlantis and after.
And maybe finally, we can find
out how to cross this fracture
and then to reconnect
and maybe to suddenly
appear something here.
Well, maybe someone
will discover
an element that will finally
say that Atlantis was true.
Well, to do all of this,
probably since the beginning
of Damanhur, there was
connection, time travelling,
line into time able to
connect and to reconnect,
to bring information,
to bring knowledge,
to help then the preparation
of this actual time.
I'm talking about the '80s,
the beginning of the '80s.
At the time, the
temple, unfortunately,
was not still complete.
And you can imagine that the
temple is not only a temple
but is also a laboratory,
or also maybe a station.
Not a train station.
Maybe a time station, or a
dimensional station, or a--
JAY WEIDNER: Astral travel.
--astral station.
Whatever.
The fantasy could be
just a limitation.
But because we built
Damanhur according
to the study of the
synchronic lines,
actually, the synchronic
lines, their movement
are creating also a
lot of natural gate--
dimensional gate, time gate.
Well, just to give an example.
Just remember the
Bermuda Triangle.
Remember, very
[INAUDIBLE] in the past.
Boats, aeroplane,
people, stuff that was
disappearing in that area.
Well, let's say in this planet,
there's many different places
that are like
natural gates, doors
that you can open for get
dimension times very far away.
JAY WEIDNER: Going to
the past or the future.
Whatever.
I mean, also
different dimensions.
Now, I mean, it's just to
touch very briefly that topic.
Around Damanhur, there is
some of this natural gate,
and it's actually what?
At the time, it was
used to do what?
Well, to do a time
travel, a time
travel that was not
the first, and it
was not also the last one.
A time travel to do
what in particular?
To brings back symbols,
signs, images about Atlantis.
Let's say like to help to
make Atlantis more real.
JAY WEIDNER: I understand.
Or maybe to cross this sort
of fracture between this time
and the other time.
But there is a problem because
there is different possibility
in the time travel.
We already mentioned one, the
low cost of reincarnation.
Let's say we are
all time traveler.
Another one is the
physical time travel.
Well actually, you
physically, you jump
inside of one of these doors.
You disappear from
this time, and you
appear from another
door in another time.
Actually, mostly more
easy to jump into the past
than to jump into the future.
Future, pretty
complicated or almost
impossible because
future is something
that we are creating--
JAY WEIDNER: Hasn't
been created yet.
Exactly.
So unfortunately, to
bring pictures back,
there is a little problem.
The problem is one of the
rule of the time travel,
and the rule is that you cannot
export complexity, let's say.
You cannot bring
anything with you.
JAY WEIDNER: Makes sense.
So you can just go naked.
Like Arnold Schwarzenegger
in "The Terminator."
Eh, something like that.
It's Something like that.
So even "The Terminator"
is coming after.
The movie was coming after this.
This is true.
Well anyhow, so you
can just go naked.
You cannot bring video
camera, camera, whatever.
JAY WEIDNER: Sure, makes sense.
So what to do?
So at the time, Falco decided
to invite another person
to this incredible journey,
to this time travel, actually
a very good friend of
him and of Damanhur,
a painter called Dovilio Brero.
Unfortunately also, Dovilio
passed some years ago.
But Dovilio is a painter
with an incredible capacity
to paint exactly what
he saw with his eyes,
like to be a sort
of alive camera.
JAY WEIDNER: Perfect memory.
Perfect memory, but also
the capacity to paint with so
many details what he remember.
I don't have to tell you that
he accept this invitation,
and they both, Falco and Dovilio
at the right time through one
of these gates in
the perfect moment,
they physically jump
inside of the gate,
disappeared from this time,
and actually appear-- well,
there was someone waiting them.
I mean, these are
not journey that you
can do whatever you want.
So there is always a
connection on the two sides.
So they appear from
one of these time gates
on the time, the
time of Atlantis--
before the disaster for sure.
And they spent three days and
three nights in the capital
of Atlantis in the city that
as Plato was describing,
it was the city done on
rings surrounding from water,
exactly how he did
a long time ago.
And they went exactly
there and to the capital,
because the capital was the
place that was representing
better than others
the entire culture,
the entire civilization of
Atlantis that actually--
JAY WEIDNER: Like
going to New York
if you wanted to visit
the United States.
Yes.
I mean-- or you go
to Rome because--
JAY WEIDNER: Or Paris.
Or to Paris, and also
because the capital,
it's done to impress
the visitors,
the guests, because I mean, this
is the capital of the country.
So and in the capital,
in the city called Atlan,
they spent these three days
and three night visiting
the main places of this
incredible civilization,
civilization that
again, we might
imagine that is for sure
connecting to humankind
and to this planet.
But that maybe was also the
capital of something bigger.
So maybe Atlantis was not
only an important civilization
or an empire based
on the planet Earth,
but something also that
was really connecting
many different places,
many different planets,
many different intelligence,
many different races in this
regards.
So after these three days
and three nights, again,
from one of these time gates in
Atlantis, at the right moment
at the right time, they
jump into these gates,
disappear from
Atlantis, and then
reappeared naked as
they was in this time,
and then start to do what?
Well, to paint.
JAY WEIDNER: To paint.
To paint.
Not to forget and to bring--
JAY WEIDNER: Hurry.
--and to bring whatever
they was able to remember
during this incredible journey.
Paintings that are-- I don't
know, painting like this
is 44, 50 centimeters.
Not very big.
But when you going to show
this slide, these pictures,
we have truly to
remember the people
that these are not
camera pictures
but they are paintings.
And the numbers of details
that Dovilio thanks
to the Falco's help, brought
into the canvas is amazing,
is incredible.
I teach these seminars
many, many times,
hundreds and hundreds of
times all over the world.
And I have to admit
that every time--
JAY WEIDNER: You
showed these pictures.
--I discover something new,
and it's-- and it's incredible
because hey, hey come on.
This will not happen.
Every time, I'm discovering
something new, and which
is the effect of these
pictures, because that
is also the interesting part.
And I can observe this with
people from all over the world,
from South America, to Europe,
to Japan, or to Australia.
It's incredible how these
pictures that are also
full of these symbols--
symbols that are connecting
to different languages,
ancient languages, or let's
say ancestral languages,
archetype languages, the same
that we are also
studying in that manner,
we call archetype languages
because they are based
on symbols, words, sounds,
vibrations, frequencies,
and also movement of the body.
From all the study, for
example, in Damanhur, we have
our sacred dance, for example.
It is not just dancing
in a very beautiful way,
but it's a way to
move the energy,
teach, transform things.
Or for example, all our chanting
music that is not simply
pleasant but again,
is a way to open doors
through the dimension,
is open to touch
parting [INAUDIBLE] people.
It's a way of teaching.
It's a way of really opening
doors connecting to the memory.
Inside of these
paintings, it's all of us.
And it doesn't matter
if you know the symbol.
Doesn't matter.
But just looking
them, it's really
like something that
is starting to touch,
and it's like turn on a
memory, a conscious something.
And it's incredible to see the
effect that these paintings are
in front of people
when they saw them,
but also for example
into their dreams.
Because what, maybe you're
not immediately aware
because your rational
part is still
controlling everything during
the night, during the dreams.
It's amazing.
And people, they
have clear vision.
They have remembers about
them also in the time
or connecting to
Atlantis because I'm
used to say if we all believe
that this is the time, is
the time of transformation,
is the time where there is
so many investment from energy,
forces, intelligence, then
from many different parts of
this time and also from outside
are investing.
As Damanhur is one of these
investments, and we are here,
and we are talking about
this, and you are following
this interview on the
internet or on TV or whatever,
it's because there is a meaning.
It's because you are
connecting to all this history.
You are connecting to
all these projects.
You are a part of this.
Otherwise, why you're here?
Why you are in this time?
Why you are living this time?
Doesn't make sense.
Who is here is the right one.
It's the right one
to change this world.
Believe me or not, that you
feel it or you don't feel it.
If you're here, it's
because there is a reason.
So we need to make this click.
We need to find out that we
have an important mission
to accomplish right
now in this time,
not only for working, money,
money, working, blah blah,
but for something that
is really connecting
to what you feel is your dream.
JAY WEIDNER: Right.
And probably if
it's a dream, it's
very nearby or connecting
to what you think about
and what you feel
about spirituality.